== Shaping the Web / Introna & Nissenbaum

- when every aspect of media culture is open to commercial exploitation leads to "full-scale commercializaion of sports, arts, and education, the disappearance of notions of public service from public discourse, and the degeneration of journalism,political coverage, and children's programming under commercial pressures." (McChesney) 169

- commitment of the US to private ownership of commmunications technology is "the single most important and consistent historical policy position that inluenced the course of telecommunications development." 170

"although te Internet and the Web offer exciting prospects for furhering the publi goo, the benefits are confitional, resting precariously on a number of political, economic, and technical factors." 170

"The politics of search engines thus represents the broader struggle to sustain the democratic potential of traditional media, the Internet, and the World Wide Web in particular." 170

- search engine designers have a significant role in "determining any systematic inclusions and exclusions, the wide-ranging factors that dictate systematic prominence for some sites, dictating systematic invisibility for others." 171

"what people (the seekers) are able to find on the Web determines what the Web consists of for them." 171

"Without muh exaggeration one could say that to exist is to be indexed by a search engine." 172

"you are important if others who are already seen as important indicate that you are important." 173

- the importance of being in the top 10 or 20 was already well established 

- relevancy ranking as much more difficult than aggregating the data;
	"while we seem to be mastering the coverage issue, we continue to struggle with the issue of what precisely to extrac from the enormous bulk of possibilities for a given search." 174

PageRank and backlinks facilitate splogging (cite Helmond 2008)

"Search-engine operators are loath to give out details of their ranking algoriths for fear that spammers will use this knowledge to trick them." 174

"The battle for ranking is fought not only between search engines and Web masters/designers but also among organizations wishing for prominence." 175
	- a contributing factor in naming the conservative Internet Freedom Coalition?

"We note further that not only are most users unaware of these particular biases, they seem also to be unaware that they are unaware." 176

- resemblance of the search services to commercial television: advertising revenue

- against market dynamics resulting in the ideal search engine
		- users do not have adequate means to judge the efficacy of a search, if they are simply looking for information. 176
		"since the locating of information also serves to inform one aboutthat which one is looking for"
		- ignores vertical, command dimension of economics; barrier to entry in search 176

"In fact, the partiality of any search attempt (even if we assume a competent searcher) will magnify this problem in the context of search engines." 177

"there simply is no level playing field by any stretch of the imagination." 177
	- due to the complexities of getting indexed and maintaining rank
     
- the Web as a market of markets
	"In this market of markets, there is likely to be little incentive to ensure inclusion of thes small markets and only  small cost (in loss of participation) for their exclusion." 177

"Without an effective means of finding what you need, the benefits of an informatino and communicatino infrastructure like the Web are significantly diminished." 180
	"a library containing all the printed boos and papers in the world without covers and without a catalogue." 180

- search bias constrains not only the seekers, but those who "would like to be found, to be seen and heard." 180

"The cost of a biased search-and-retrieval mechanism may even be greater for Web-site owners wishing to be found--the senders." 180

"If search mechanisms systematically narrow the scope of what seekers may find and what sites may be found, they will diminish the overall value of the Web as a publi forum nd as a broadly inclusive source of information." 180

- access is more than the computer and the link, more than the skills to use them. "Access implies a comprehensive mechanism for finding and being found." 181

"A drift toward popular, commercially successful institutions, through the partial view offered by search engines, seriously threatens these prospects." 181

"It is good to keep in mind that the struggle to chart the Web and capture the attention of the information seekers is not merely a technical challenge, it is also political." 182

== Is Relevance Relevant? / Van Couvering

structuralism:

"technology can be seen t be an elemnt of both system and social action, which are interacting dynamically." 

"interpretive schemes help to govern the allocation of resources and thereby reinfore or potentially change larger structures."

"The value of a resource is dependent upon the ways in which cultural schemas can mobilize that and other resources."

technological frame: "the way in which producers cognitively orgnize technology"
	"both constrains and enables the agency of the actors"

"This frame then not only helps to interpret technology and give it meaning, but also aids the producers in mobilizing other resources around their interpretation."

market schema: "refers mainly to business-related issues: costs, revenues, and competition"

science-technology schema: "discourse is dominated by experiments, measures, proof, and utility"

interviewees acknowledge that too much monetization of users leads to customer dissatisfaction

interviewee G: "You have to be subtle in controlling where people go. You can't just only show them your own content. You can't hit them over the head. But you can certainly influence them."

"The strong impressino given is that science deals with measurable (if complex) facts that are causally linked, hile the goal of technology is to use the knowledge of the causal links to enable the user of the technology to act on the world effectively and efficiently." 

- the concerns over a purely market driven search world is borne out by the responses of the interviewees, many of whome equate search engine quality with "customer satisfaction"

"Metrics such as precision and recall are still part of quality-testing search engines, but what is contested is the underlying ability to categorize documents into relevant and irrelevant."

"From a technical standpoint, then, the definition of a quality search engine is simple: If the search engine gives you results that answer your question, then the search engine has delivered a relevant response and the results are quality results."

"It would be fair to say that quality schemas including ideas of full disclosure, representativeness, or diversity operate at a tangent to the way in which producers primarily frame their work."

== The End of the Virtual / Rogers

"The issue no longer is how much of society and culture is online, but rather how to diagnose cultural change and societal conditions using the Internet." 8

- the Internet is not just an object of study, but a source

"to reorient Internet research to consider the Internet as a source of data, method, and technique" 13

search engines are not only "a crucial entry point to the Web," they are "epistemological machines in the sense that they crawl, index, cache, and ultimately order content." 19

"Cross-spherical analysis is a digital method for measuring and learning from thedistance between sources in different spheres on the Web." 21

"Conceptually, a sphere is considered to be a device demarcated source set" 21

"Thus, to sudy a sphere, we propose first to allow the engines to demarcate it." 21

"Cross spherical analysis compares the sources by each sphere for the same query.' 21

cross-spherical analysis is comparative ranking reearch

"Knowledge claims may be made on the basis of data collected and analyzed by devices such as search engines." 8

== The Google Dilemma / Grimmelmann

"Whoever controls the search engines, perhaps, controls the Internet itself."
	"Today, no one comes closer to controlling search than Google does." 940

documents "ways that individuals, companies, and even governments have tried to shape Google's results to server their goals"

"Your random-click quest for gerbil information s like looking for a needle in a field full of haystacks." 941      

"The Internet today is usable because of search engines." 941

!!check comscore.com for Search Engine rankings

"So many people use search engines, and their results appear to be so sophisticated, that any message you can sneak through in the form of a Googlebomb has at least a veneer of legitimacy." 942

"A successful Googlebomb doesn't just _reflect_ the consensus of web users; it can help _construct_ that consensus." 943

- contrast the Jew Googlebomb with the disappearance of 911truth.org

Google: "The beliefs and preferences of those who work at Google, as well as the opinions of the generl public, do not determine or impact our search results." 944
	- not true on multiple levels; public opinion generates the link structures they use in the first place; also, programmers are driven by the market schema to return links that the user thinks are relevant

"You can't say that a search engine was irresponsible unless you have a baseline of what would be responsible." 945

Google Dilemma: "Google has the ability to shape its search results to prefer some web sites over others. Indeed, whatever choice it makes--alphabetical, by link count, by politics, by whatever--will result in some sites being on the first page of results and others not." 944-945
	- only increases the reasoning for disclosure
	- court held that Google hs editorial control of its search results under 1st amendment
	- a strange precedence, in the sense that other governments are not shy about restricting Google

"Every decision about search, and every lawsuit about search, has these inescapably political questions at its heart." 950

== "Googlearchy" // Hindeman

"Claims about the importance of narrowcasting online have persisted, in part, becuse they are difficult to test." 31

"we argue that the link structure of the Internet is particularly important in shaping online political activity." 32

"The link topology of the Internet thus llows us to draw a rough map of how the attention of citizens is distributed across different sources of online information." 32

"The link topology of the Web suggests that the online public sphere is less open than many have hoped or feared." 33

- surfing behavior is also constrained by the power-law link patterns

"One might think that a less concentrated search engine market would help ensure diversity in the content seen. But once search engines focus on link structure, the popularity contst dynamics seen with PageRank are difficult to avoid." 35

"The raw number of hyerlink pointing to a site does predict much of its traffic." 35

"While the global power law distribution of the Internet is clear, sub-groups of sites also diverge significantly from the overall pattern." 36

"First, the number of highly visible sites is small by any measure." 43

"Second, comparative visibility drops off in a rapid and highly regular fashion once one moves outside the core group of successful sites." 44

- power laws all the way down

Googlearchy: "the rule of the most heavily linked"
	1) "Googlearchy suggests that the number of links pointing to a site is the most important determinant of site visibility." 44
	2) "Googlearchy suggests that niche dominance should be a general rule of online life."
	3) "Googlearchy suggests that this dependence upon links should make niche dominance self-perpetuating." 44

"By relying so heavily on links, search engines should reinforce or even accelerate this rich-get-richer phenomenon. Search engines should produce patterns of traffic at least as concentrated as those produced if citizens were surfing randomly across the Web." 44

"link density is an effective proxy for online audience share" 45

"The end to end nature of the Web might not limit the political sites that citizens visit, but the link structure of the Web certainly does." 46










