Spam

"We argue that a condition akin to a _horro autotoxicus_ of the digital network, the capacity of the network to propagate its own imperfections, exceeds the metaphor with natural unity." (p. 15)

"...the network itself is without a doubt the perfect medium for both perfection and imperfection." (p. 15)

"The invisibility of software objects has in practice confounded a media studies approach orientated toward a representational analysis of phenomenological "content." " (p. 16)

"Yet, despite the _abstract_ nature of mathematical media, these proceses are completely real and demand attention from culturl theory, not least because the contemporary biopower of digital life functions very much on the level of the nonvisual temporality of computer network." [sic] (p. 17)

"If software is computation that makes a difference (not just a coding of differences), then there is also a continuous marking out of what kind of processes are deemed as normal, abnormal, and/or anomalous." (p. 17)

"Instead of merely being grasped as elements that should be totally exclueded from the economic, productive, and discursive spheres of the knowledge society, they are equally understood as captured and used inclusively within the framework of digital assemblages." (p. 17)

"Ultimately, if capitalism is able to make novel use of these critical practices of resistance, then ccultural and media theorists should do likewise. Otherwise, they will remain anomalies for a theory unable to perceive of new modulations of power and politics functioning on the level of software." (p. 18)

== Contagions

"The figurative viral objct becomes part of a semiotic regime of intrusive ower, bodily invaion, uncontrollabe contamination, and even new modes of auto-consumerism." (p. 19)

"Indeed, when contemplating the metaphor of contagion, it i important to acknowledge two constraining factors at work. First, the analytical focus on metaphorical reasoning may well establish equivalences, but these resemblances only really scratch he surface of an intensive relation established between a viral abstraction and concrete contagious events. Second, it is important to recognize the political import of the analogical metaphor in itself. It has an affective charge and organizational role in the spaces, practices, and productions of digital network culture." (p. 20

"In conjunction with epidemiological and immunological analogies, the digital gene delimits the patterning of software practices, excluding the contagious anomaly from the norms of code reproduction." (p. 20)


===MUTANT AND VIRAL
===John Johnston

"...from its official beginningss, computer viruses constituted a forbidden zone, proscribed from legitimate experiment. This proscription is more than a matter of passing interest, inasmuch as digital viruses would eventually reveal themselves to be of singular importance within official ALife research." (p. 24)

"A multiplicity of digital organisms that can no longer be defined except as a "mutational cloud"--surely this is a curious order of being, produced inadvertently by technology but made intelligible by an anomalous phenomenon of nature. Yet the pursuit of such anomalous instances may prove highly instructive in the attempt to define and (re)create life." (p. 28)

"In the context of these observations, Ackley proposed that 'the actual physicality of a computer itself may support richer notions of life' than either software programs alone or the software candidates for artificial life." (p. 33)

"Cohen defined a living system, as comprised of an organism _and_ its environment, arguing that when viewed as a pattern in 'the information environment' computer viruses are very much alive." (p. 35)

"With computer immune system research we unavoidably brush up against the limits of a conceptual contradiction between the computer as a tool or medium over which we exercise near complete control and the computer as part of an ecosystem that cannot function unless given more life-like capacities that will put it outside of our control." (p. 37)

"Clearly, if a fully functional computer immune system is to be constructed--or rather, more likely--evolved, then human computational and communcational activities will have to be made more like biological exchanges--fluid, adaptable, and cooperative." (p. 37)

"The very notion of technology as a tool for management and manipulation (which then becomes a means of capitalist profit) is here giving birth to another kind of world composed of a multitude of tiny, self-organizing entities that neither form part of the natural order nor directly serve human interests, although the hope is that they can be gently nudged into doing so." (p. 38)


===HOW NETWORKS BECOME VIRAL
===TONY D. SAMPSON

"The externality of the parasite model is therefore replaced here by an internalized problem concerning the detection and control of contagious anomalies in networked environments." (p. 40)

"This composition ensures that dynamic networks tend toward virality over time. This is not because of the intentionality of external forces, or the will of individual nodes, but because collective social usage of a network introduces increasing architectural fragility." (p. 41) 

"Again we find a paradoxical condition in which robustness and vulnerability are in a compositional tradeoff with each other." (p. 41)

"The physical connectivity of network capitalism needs to remain openly connected so as to promote continuous flow of money, people, and goods necessary to sustain capital growth. However, contagious assemblage overlaps between nation states increases the potentil for stability and instability to spread." (p. 44)

"Therefore, following Tiziana Terranova's proposal that the physics of a network is "inseparable" from the emergence of cultural politics, this chapter argues that power and resistance are intimately coupled to pragmatic questions concerning the stability and instability of connectivity in a network." (p. 45)

"As is seen, network emergence does not result in a democratically distributed equilibrium of connectivity." (p. 46)

"On the contrary, it is the increasing centralization of the network itself--the amplification of a few hghly connected clusters, which make a network vulnerable to contagion." (47)

"Significantly, universal contagion is not grasped here as determined by increased contact alone, but becomes apparent when networked assemblages overlap, and contagion and contamination follow." (47)

"Networks may also be thought of as events _in passage_." (48)

"Indeed, the _universality_ of scale-free topologies is organized not simply by code, but around the collective usage of network participants." (48)

"After analyzing the distribution of links across a large sample of webpages, researchers relised that the complexity of the Web exhibited a strange, skewed topological consistency, the paterning of which prompted one author to contrast the democracy of random networks with the far-from-random _aristocratic_ connectivity of the scale-free model." (52)

"...the topologies of these electronic networks demonstrate a _power law_."(52)

"Yet, new network theory claims that the scale-free model is a universal model apparent in the Web, metabolic networks, electronic circuits, Internet routers, co-authorship, and conceptual networks of language." (53)

"Whereas in a distributed network model contagion is situated as a force for decentralization, in scale-free topologies it is the promiscuous nodes that make a network epidemic come together by acting as intensive centers of viral exchange." (55)

===PARISI

"Significantly, echoing the work of Lynn Margulis, biolfilmic architectures point out that evolution is not a linear family tree, but an affair of trading in slime growing to cover the entire surface of the Earth." (62)

"...symbiotic architecture points to a new conception of coded spatiality--an infectious relationality marking the ontological condition of biological, technical, cultural networked spaces." (63)


"In short, this mahematical interval between 0 and 1 is neither a discrete number nor a void, but is an intensive quantity defined by an intrinsic numercal variablity, which remains computationally open in relation to the configuring constraints of an inexact cipher." (73)

"Therefore, software is not a mere tool for design. It implies instead an experiential zone for the quasi-imperceptible activities of minute precepts. The obscure dust of the world implicated in differential relations." (77)

===UNPREDICTABLE LEGACIES
===ROBERTA BUIANI

"Thus, it is inevitable to reinterpret viruses as potential producers of creative outcomes, rather than just threats." (84)

"In fact, uttering the word _viral_ mean signalling features that evoke, yet do not exactly reproduce such features." (84)

"Thus, the viral is both an indiction of the multidirectional and productive forces directly deriving from viruses and an expression of the performative forces imparted by individuals on viruses." (85)

"The resulting connnection of the viral to the designated object saanctions the formation of independent, speciic, and novel entities or phenomena, whose charcterstcs retain features originating from teir accompanying attribute (the viral) and the elements that previously characterized the objet itself (videos, marketing, etc.). The materilization of the new object is a concrete assemblage." (89)

"...the viral signals the formation of concrete assemblages or clusters of meaning that sit outsie the strict domain of the informational." (90)

"When appplying the term _viral_, chosen features deriving fom viruses are transferred to a diverse range of phenomena or activities. Although the term remins unchanged, the newly created items have little to do with its original meaning." (91)

"Using a number of creative tctics individuals can appropriate and manipulate the features that characterize virues and turn them to their advantage." (94)

identification of viral properties of franchises; the brand logo stays the same even when host specific contingencies are negotiated (95)

google will eat itself (gwei.org) (99)

===BAD OBJECTS

"Every network defines its own 'unwanted bads.'" (101)

"Joost van Loon noted that modernity can be chracterized more broadly as the control, channeling, and distribution of both 'goods' and 'bads.'" (101)

"... the mode of a bad objec is not grounded in traditional ideas of territorial boundaries, but is instead found in the vectors of movements in a topology." (102)

===ARCHIVES OF SOFTWARE
===JUSSI PARIKKA

"A virus may be understood as a calculational process at the material level of computer circuits, but when this accident (event) is called 'malicious software' it connects to a whole incorporeal sphere of morals, crimes, criminals, laws, and judgments." (107)

"Hence, an analysis of computer culture should not focus solely on the material event of calculation (the technical diagrams) nor on the discursive events, but in the constant double articulation between various semiotic regimes." (107)

"A constant production of faces functions as an element of representation and antiproduction tht dams up flows. Such representtions are not productive, but place spatial grids on the intensive flows of software and coding practices." (113)

"This archive is then piloting both how we define (un)wanted objects of digital culture, and simultaneously how the future of digital culture is produced." (115)

"Weeding pathologies from the operating systems and user files with virus programs connects in general to the histories of _domestication_ and _normalization_ of the computer. This process, or at least attempt, of normalization is connected to copyrighting software coe, which was earlier distributed as free knowledge." (118)

"We could, then, consider Windows as an archival framework of contemporary network culture that organizes materials (texts, images, etc.), channels users, ad pilots the uses and potentials of network culture. Window operating system (connected to the corporation and its networks) is an archival machne in the sense that it controls large parts of what can be said, shown, and heard in the contemporary digital culture." (118-119)

"Tactical an-archaeology might then mean...not targeting operting systems or certain corporations as such but exposing the principles of how digital culture is framed through micropolitics of code." (119)

vi-con, a project in which two viruses n love chase each other through the net (121)

"By opening up further potentialities of seeing and saying regrding software, there also opens up the posibility of new practices of software." (123)

===CONTAGIOUS NOISE
===GOODMAN

"Rather than an epochal shift,  infectious digitality merely reinforces the needfor an interrogation of the rhythms of affective contagion that emanate from cybercultural spam." (127)

"Here accidents are conceived as engines of rhythmic mutation. More than any other field, the sonic therefore provides the analysis of digital culture with a _rhythmic virology of the glitch_." (128)

not all genres struck by glitch benefitted (129)

"The radicality of the click, or glitch, was that it represented nothing except itself. [Szepanski] argued that it, in fact, made audible the virtual, the sound of the in-between." (132)

"Instead the virtual is definedas potential, whereas the digital can always only tend toward an already coded, andtherefore predetermined range of possibility." (133)

"If the glitch appears as a warp in the digital matrix of space-time, then it is perhaps only a surface symptom of the more foundational numerical rhythms uot of which that grid congeals." (140)

'engine of rhythmic mutation' (140)

===PORNOGRAPHY

"Like a contagious virus it seemingly hijacks almost all media forms or rather becomes increasingly bundled together in the formation of new media panics." (161)

distinguished among anomalies by its visibility

not always reducile to a capitalist context

===PAASONEN

heteroporn s assumed to be obvious, knowable,and known without specific study (168)

"Constant negotiation is necessary as the boundary between the categories [of porn] is slippery, fuzzy, and always leaking." (170)

"Pornography spam is explicit in is displays of embodied differences, gentalia, acts, and bodily fluids." (173)

"And if mainstream heteropornography is seen as representative of sameness, then examples such as 'Record Sizes' would seem to point to a degree of inner incoherence." (174)

"Vibrators and dildos occupy a paradoxical position as sexual tools and cultural symbols associated with both female autoeroticism and control, and the phallocentric logic of heterosexuality that depicts female bodies as acted upon." (175)

"Fucking Machines" constructs the machines, more than its female models, as objects of fascination... (176)

"In a sense, penises and machines leak into each other, giving rise to a highly manufactured and mechanical formation." (177)

"A reading of the more anomalous spam examples suffests that the body of straight pornography tends to leak toward fetishes and paraphilias in ways that works to unravel the over-arching notion of the mainstream or the straight." (178)

spam as a point of entance to examining boundary work

===MAKE PORN, NOT WAR
===KATRIEN JACOBS

"Pornography on the Web offers us a way in which to experience an economy of excess through media experiments and pornography saturation,vanguard culture, and culture wars." (181)

Dougal: acts of file-sharing as energy flows invested with sexual energies

reminded of crooked little vein's lizard philia

connection between the mechanized apotheosis ofthe fascist warrior and the fucking machines

"But left-wing groups also have to reacquaint themselves with a positive philosophy of desire and technology, reinventing strategies of affect and sensualism." (192)

"So rather than relishing a numb or helpless attitude toward pornography excess, or making simplified disavowels of the niche groups of sexism and violence, we can explore or morphing bodily sensations." (193)
	-- this connects to Paasonen's shift in attitude when archiving spam porn

===CAN DESIRE GO ON WITHOUT A BODY?
===DOUGAL PHILLIPS

"[Lyotard's model], allowing us to replace the moralistic obscenity at the heart of pornography with a more ambivalent figure of a self-perpetuating, obesely swelling energy stemming from the intersection of desire and the screen." (196)

"Can anomalous technologies emancipate digital consumption to follow the free-flowing nature and expansive trajectory of desire itself?" (196)

technology and body; rethinking economies of porno problematizes theory of desire and of porn

negentropy: "a measurement of the complexity of a physical structure in which quantities of energy are invested" (197)

"Networked computers are giving rise to self-perpetuating economies of data..." (200)

share ratio as e-dick

anomie: [Durkheim] "the unsettling that comes when normative ties that bind us together are weakened or broken." (203)

"The digitalization of the anomalous will lead to the orbital emncipation of digital consumption--for the endless energy of money and desire, the sky is no limit." (204)

Lyotard libidinal economy

"The screen is ofered here as the site of the projection and fulfillment of desire, as it is a space for montage, the cutting together that forms a net to ensnare desire." (207)

pornograph as a linguistic screen

"...desire and technology are in fact banding together to escape the screen repression of us mere earthlings...But where it will go will prove impossibe for us to conceptualize, as we cannot think desire without at least two screens in front of us." (212)


===CENSORED

===ROBOT.TXT
===GREG ELMER

Bush white house iraq

the legality of disobeying a robot.txt

"... the robot-exclusion protocol has the potential of removing public documents from archival platforms such as Google and other Web archives, calling into question their status as reliable--and ultimately unchangeable--forms of the 'public record'." (221)

"Part of what this exclusiion protocol calls into question then s the creation of anomalous knowledge, files that are relatively accessible for those with knowledge of the system, but are excluded from third-party search engine archives." (222)

site maps

"Although there exists much vague language describing the need for such a protocol, the intent to exclude content should not be esily dismissed--it has clear privacy and proprietal issues. Yet, at the same time this exclude content is clearly not pssword protected or otherwise secured by other means." (226)

===RICHARD ROGERS

"Thus, single sites may be censored but portions of the same or related content, and its apparatus, may be unblocked." (230)

"The optimizer, like the censored, is striving to find out whether the new sleight of hand that keeps the information in the right space has been discovered." (230)

"... related site dynamic URL sampling (URL list-making with hyperlink analysis), redistributed content discover (through key word searching, key phrase parsing, and additional searching), and surfer re-routing (through route map-making). (234)

between 1000 and 2000 URLs are checked per country

"dynamic URL sampling...relied on an analysis of hyperlinking for related site relevance as opposed to the editorial process--directories and experts." (236)

"Rather than being built into the infrastructure of the Internet, routing around should be described as labor-intensive and semi-manual work..." (243)

"State Internet Censorship is evolving from the directory-editor model, described earlier as old media-style for it assumes a Web constituted of institutions or actors operating single sites. The new media style, conversely, follows the movement of content around the Web ('circulation space'), and concentrates less on the policies of the censor than on the skills of the content movers, and how the results of those skills may be captured." (246)

===ON NARCOLEPSY
===GALLOWAY & THACKER

"Is there a narcolepsis to software? Is there a 'dreaming' to the algorithm? Is there a 'sleep-writing' that is an unintended byproduct of computers?" (253)

"_Is the narcoleptic computer the machine that is both automatic and autonomous?_" (253)

"... spam is not trash. Trash, in the most general sense, implies the remnants of something used and then discarded." (253)

"But spam, arguably, comes from elsewhere. This is predominantly because spam means nothing, _and yet it is pure significaion._" (254)

"In this way, spam is an excess of signification, a signification without sense, precisely the noise that signifies nothing--except its own generativity." (254)

"... _the processor's grammar defines the space of possibility for the algorithm's dataset_." (255)

"Today, Philip Agre used the term _grammars of action_ to describe the way in which human action is parsed according to specific physical algorithms. Imagine the 'noise sequences' that have been erased." (255)

the viral perspective

"Replication and cryptography are the two activites that define the virus." (256)

BmTP, biomoleculr transport protocol: "If this is feasible, then it would effectively demonstrate the degree to which a single informatic paradigm covers what used to be the mutually exclusive domains of the material and the immaterial, the biological and the informatic, the organism and its milieu." (259)

"The 20th century will be remembered as that time when not all was media, when there existed nonmedia." (260)

"Spaces will become rewindable." (260)

"... the unknown unknown drags into the light its opposite, the end of humanity." (260)

"Tactics of abandonment are positive technologies, they are tactics of fullness." (261)

"These strategies could consist of: nonexistent action (non-doing); unmeasurable or not-yet-measurable human traits, or the promotion of measurable data of negligible importnce." (261)

"The nonexistent is that which cannot be parsed by any available algorithms. This is not nihilism; it is the purest form of love." (262)

"The challenge would not be that of resisting visualizations (e.g., refusing to be a consumer profile, a data point), and neither would it be that of constantly escaping representation (e.g., using avatars, aliases, screen identities). Resistence and escape would have to be replaced by a certain indiscernability; _tactics of evasion_ would have to be replaced by _operations of narcolepsy_." (263)

"Data has no technique for creating meaning, only techniques for interfacing and parsing... Meaning is a data conversion." (263)


