
4 degrees of cultural development:
	1) autocratic
	2) narrow democratic (representational, but no power in other domains such as business, education)
	3) wider democratic (political participation as well as "varying degrees" of wider kinds of participation
	4) commons p2p culture: "a libertarian and abundance-oriented global network with equipotential rights of participation of everyone in every field of human endeavor" 5

"P2P is nothing else than a premise of a new type of civilization that is not exclusively geared towards the profit motive." 5

"1) a particular type of human relational dynamic is growing very fast across the social fields, and that such combined occurrence is the result of the deep shit in ways of feeling and being (ontology), of knowing (epistemology), and of core value constellations (axiology)
2) That it has a coherent logic that cannot be fully contained within the present 'regime' of society.
3) that it is not an utopia, but,as 'an already existing social practice', the seed of a likely major transformation to come. I will not be arguing that there is an 'inevitble evolutionary logic at work', but rather that a new and intentional moral vision,holds the potential for a major breakthrough in social evolution, leading to the possibility of a new political, economic, and cultural 'formation' with a new coherent logic." 5-6

P2P as accompanied by a (nascent) socio-political movement, "much as industrial class relations triggered a labour movement" 6
	- in this case it is the "Free Culture" movement, or a movement concerned with the disappearance of the Commons

P2P: first "tentative" definition:
	"It is a specific form of relaional dynamic, is based on the assumed equipotency of the participants, organized through the free coopoeration of equals in viw of the performance of a common task, for the creation of a common good, with forms of decision-making and autonomy that are widely distributed throughout the network." 8

"P2P process are not structureless, but are characterized by dynamic and changing structures which adapt themselves to phase changes." 8

"P2P may be the first true meritocracy." 8

"Equipotency means that there is no prior formal filtering for participatino, but rather that it is the immediate practice of cooperation which determines the expertise and level of participation." 8

"Whereas participants in hierarchical systemsare subject to the panoptismof the select few who control the vast majority, in P2P systems, participants have access to holoptism,the ability for any participant to see the whole." 8

"Though P2P is related to earlier social modes, those were most in evidence in the early tribal era, and it now emerge in an entirely new context, enabled by technologies that go beyond the barriers of time and space." 9

if hierarchy or centralization exist in P2P, it is to facilitate participation and many-to-many communication, rather than to control 9

"P2P, as a uniquely human phenomenon, integrates moral and intentional aspects." 9

can be a partial element of another process, such as connecting a Board of Directors

"Where P2P i a full process, we will argue that it is a formofcommunal shareholding producing a new type of Commons." 9

hierarchical elements enable rather than constrain many-to-many communication and participation (TCP/IP, DNS, etc) 10

- check out Writeable Web

strong vs weak members: DNS-addressed or not

"Each generation of P2P filesharing has been more consistent in its applications of peer to peer principles." (in part to the efforts of the music industry) 10

object-oriented programming as P2P? 11

"P2P netowrks are the key format of the technological infrastructure that suports the current economic, political, and social systems." 11

"The promise of the internet is that we now have a vector of information production, distribution, and exchange, that functions at least partly outside of the control of what he calls the 'vectoralist' class." 12

[dealing with power law link structures? 
	1) trust is not based on inlinks but a separate metric of feedback, based on the quality of contributions as reported by other users
	2) 
]

"The hope is that techno-social developments are creating the possibility of a new balance of power, a 'second superpower' of global public opinion that is more democratic in character." 15

three important things need to be built for the Core Commons Infrastructure the two non-physical layer items are:
	- "user-friendly desktop software, to manage content (Pesce's Open Tuner proposal)
	- better social mechanisms to select quality into such an alternative framework 16

Howeard Rheingold and others, in ... Technologies of Cooperation.. outlined seven dimensions:

1. the structures are dynamic and evolving, not static
2. The reules are not imposed by any outside authority, but emerge from the group itself
3. The resources are made available to the public, not kept private or available through sales
4. Thresholds are kept as low as possible, so that anyone can participate
5. Feedback becomes systemic, through the use of social accounting software and other forms of 'participation capture'
6. Memory is becoming persistent, and no longer ephemeral as it was in the first phase of everchanging URL's
7. Identity s derived from the group and participation in the group   17-18

P2P is both a cause and consequence of abundance 18

"Hierarchy only works with scarcity, and in a situation where the control of scarce resources determines the end result of the zero-sum power games being conducted." 18
	- reputation creates hierarchy because reputation is a scarce resource

"Modern humans think themselves as autonomous agents using objects, but become themselves objects of the systems of their own creation." 19

while cognitive capitalism is exploitative, "the potential is there for a new model whch allies both differentation (the autonomous individual retains his freedom and prerogratives), and participation." 20

because technology now enables P2P to operate beyond the limitations of time and space: "What we now have for the first time is a densely interconnected network of ffinity-based P2P networks. Thus, the technological format is now becoming dominant, is an essential part of a new feedback loop, which strengthens the emergence of P2P to a degree not seen since the demise of tribal civilization." 22

p2p is not the result of technology: "Rather, as technology, it is itself an expression of a deep shift in the epistemology and ontology occuring in our culture." 22

rather than aloocating resources and making decisions via the market or commands, it is social relations 23

peer production is dependent on the existing system, as the producers need to make a living somehow 26

Eric von Hippel: innovation is driven by users, especially 'lead users' more than internal market research and R&D divisions 28

fewer and fewer workers are directly manipulating matter--the process of shaping matter is now mediated through computers

cognitive capitalism depends most on competitive advantages based on information 29
	- when these advantages are protected by the state, prices bear no relation to production cost

the Netarchicl Class
	- "is not dependent on either knowledge assets or information veors, but enables and exploits the networks of participatory culture" 30

Andreas Wittel: 'sociality' vs 'community'; sociality is geared to the creation and ptotecction of proprietary inormaton 31

"By abolishing distinctions between producer and consumer, open source processes dramticallyincrease their access to expertise, to a global arena networked through the internet." 33

Clay Shirky: 'mental transaction costs'

Aaron Krowne: Free Software magazine, explains higher efficiency:

1) When positive contributions exceed negative contributions by a significant factor in a CBPP project, the project will be successful.

2) Cohesion quality is the quality of the presentation of concepts in a collaborative component (such as an encyclopedia entry). Assuming the success criterion of Law 1 is met, cohesion quality of a component will overall rise. However, it may temporarily decline. The declines are by small amounts and the rises are by large amounts.

(Corollary) Laws 1 and 2 explain why cohesion quality of the entire collection (or project) increases over time: the uncoordinated temporary declines in cohesion quality cancel out with small rises in other components, and the less frequent jumps in cohesion quality accumulate to nudge the bulk average upwards. This is without taking into account coverage quality, which counts any conceptual addition as positive, regardless of the elegance of its integration.

'brakteaten' money--precedene of  non-accumulable money

"Use value cannot be transformed into exchange value, without their [vectoralist] intervention." 37
	- the means of production and distribution of information

"can P2P be extended to the material sphere ... only if the material sphere is liberated from its connection to scarce capital, and instead starts functioning on the predicate of over-abundant and non-mediated labor, will it effectively function outside the immaterial sphere." 38

"1) forced cooperation yeilds very low quality contibutions
2) the neutral cooperation format of the marketplace generates average quality contributions
3) but freely given synergistic cooperation generates passion" 40
	- Geert Lovink's 'inspiration'

three previous stages of collective intelligence (Noubel)
1) original/tribal
2) pyramidal
3) swarming
4) global collective intelligence
  42-43

differences in tags reflect personal or group differences in ontologies, "thereby illuminating different aspects of the object" 43

"With the P2P classification schemes we see for the firsttime a recognition of multiperspectival worldviews." 44

- no formal rules to prohbit anyone from participation (anti-credentialism)

"Power and influence are determined by the quality of the contribution, and have to be accepted and constantly renewed by the community of participants." 46 (de-formalization)

de-institutionaliztion: collectives validate knowledge 46

University of Openness.

integral time: "it represents an autonomou mastery of time, whhere the different temporal experiences (cyclical, linear, etc) become transparent and used 'at theright time'" 49

intersubjective typology: 50 
communal shareholding -- tie with the credits 

[xrukus] enables positive externalities by re-integrating content with distributed peers; if one likes some content, one saves it on computer; someone queries the system for that content and receives a link to the other users stored copy of the content 52

alterglobalization: "the 'aim' of the alterglobalization movement is nothing else than a demand for a new 'organization' of the world, based on the P2P principles." 59

"Peer production is not just a political process,as these projects have to be managed,albeit in a distributed way." 60-1

Bob Jessop: peer governance
	"On the one hand, market competiion will be balanced by co-operation, the invisible hand will be combined with a visible handhake." 63

"Crucial to the success of many collaborative projects is their implementation of the reputation schemes. They differ from previous repuration-ased systems,  such as academic peerreviw, because the open process of participation (equipotentiality) precludes a systematic strengthening of reputation so that it could become a factor of conservatism (as it is in science and is dependence on dominant paradigms)  and power." 64

== De-monopolization of power

power in the form of reputation derives from the community, is time-bound, and mitigated by the option of forking 69

scarcity of attention, power laws, and mediating agents such as Google 70
	- switching to a distributed aggregation of information vis a vis RDF/A

"The genius of the rotocols devised in peer to peer initiatives, is that they avoid the creation of a collective individual with agency. Instead, it is the communion of the collective which filters value." 70

"Peer to peer is not anti-herarchy, or even anti-authority, but it is against fixed hierarchies and 'authoritarianism', the latter defined as the tendency to monopolize power, with a will to perpetuate itself and deprive others of resources that it wants for itself." 71

"The common point is this: social values are incorporated, integrated in the very architecture of our technical systems, either in the software code or the hardwired machinery, and these then enable/allow or prohibit/discourage certain usages, thereby becoming a determinant factor in the type of social relations that are possible." 74

- call for a subjective-objective approach to networks 81

"Peer to peer is therefore also a process of social recognition and valuation, that replaces or omlements money as a token of social recognition." 83


== Contradictory Nature

"Peer to peer has clearly dual nature. As we have showed, it s the very technological infrastructure of cognitive capitalism, the very organizational mode it needs to implement its global teams." 92

"P2P creates massive use-value, but no automatice exchange value, ad thus, it cannot fund itself. It exists on the basis of the vast material wealth created by the presently existing system." 93

articulation of the P2P's voice, if it had one . 94










